Update Automatic multi-line aggregation part in Advanced Log Collection Configurations (#27361)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/logs/advanced_log_collection.md

| 2020-10-27 05:10:49.657  | `\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}\s\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}\.\d{3}`     |
| {"date": "2018-01-02"    | `\{"date": "\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}`                    |

> ### Global Automatic multi-line aggregation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Global automatic multi-line aggregation
```

  auto_multi_line_detection: true
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

> Use the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION` in Datadog Agent container to configure global automatic multi-line aggregation rule, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION` in the Datadog Agent container to configure a global automatic multi-line aggregation rule. For example:
```

```shell
DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION=true
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

#### Operator
Use the `spec.override.nodeAgent.env` parameter in your Datadog Operator manifest to set the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION` environment variable to configure a global automatic multi-line aggregation rule. For example:

```yaml
spec:
  override:
    nodeAgent:
      env:
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION
          value: "true"
```

#### Helm
Use the `datadog.logs.autoMultiLineDetection` option in the Helm chart to configure a global automatic multi-line aggregation rule. For example:

```yaml
datadog:
  logs:
    enabled: true
    autoMultiLineDetection: true
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Enable multi-line aggregation per integration

> Alternatively, this can be enabled or disabled (overriding the global config) per log integration setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can enable or disable multi-line aggregation for an individual integration's log collection. Changing the multi-line aggregation for an integration overrides the global configuration.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Configuration file" %}}

> In a Host environment, enable `auto_multi_line_detection` with [Custom log collection][1] method. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a host environment, enable `auto_multi_line_detection` with the [Custom log collection][1] method. For example:
```

      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS=\d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD=0.1
```

**Note**: The Datadog Agent interpret spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. You can see the two regex patterns are divided by a space and `\s` is used in the second regex pattern to match for spaces.

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/agent-commands/#agent-information

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}
In Kubernetes, add the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` like so:

#### Operator

```yaml
spec:
  override:
    nodeAgent:
      env:
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
          value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
```

#### Helm

```yaml
datadog:
  env: 
    - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
      value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
```

> If no pattern meets the line match threshold, add the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD` environment variable with a lower value. This configures a threshold value that determines how frequently logs have to match in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work. To find the current threshold value run the [agent `status` command][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Datadog Agent interpret spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. You can see the two regex patterns are divided by a space and `\s` is used in the second regex pattern to match for spaces.

If no pattern meets the line match threshold, add the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD` environment variable with a lower value. This configures a threshold value that determines how frequently logs have to match in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work. To find the current threshold value run the [agent `status` command][1].
```

Reviewer: Might make sense to move this "**Note**: ... " here as this is where the `EXTRA_PATTERNS` are introduced, rather than after the `MATCH_THRESHOLD` is introduced.

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/agent-commands/#agent-information

#### Operator

```yaml
spec:
  override:
    nodeAgent:
      env:
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
          value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD
          value: "0.1"
```

#### Helm

```yaml
datadog:
  env: 
    - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
      value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
    - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD
      value: "0.1"
```

> **Note**: The Datadog Agent interpret spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. You can see the two regex patterns are divided by a space and `\s` is used in the second regex pattern to match for spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - name: '<CONTAINER_NAME>'
          image: testApp:latest
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Customizing multi-line aggregation configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Customize multi-line aggregation configuration
```

Automatic multi-line detection uses a list of [common regular expressions][1] to attempt to match logs. If the built-in list is not sufficient, you can also add custom patterns and thresholds for detection.

[1]:https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/a27c16c05da0cf7b09d5a5075ca568fdae1b4ee0/pkg/logs/internal/decoder/auto_multiline_handler.go#L187
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Configuration file" %}}

> In a configuration file, add the `auto_multi_line_extra_patterns` to your `datadog.yaml` like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a configuration file, add the `auto_multi_line_extra_patterns` to your `datadog.yaml`:
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
  auto_multi_line_extra_patterns:
   - \d{4}\-(0?[1-9]|1[012])\-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01])
   - '[A-Za-z_]+ \d+, \d+ \d+:\d+:\d+ (AM|PM)'
```

> If no pattern meets the line match threshold, add the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter with a lower value. This configures a threshold value that determines how frequently logs have to match in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work. To find the current threshold value run the [agent `status` command][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter determines how closely logs have to match the patterns in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work.

If your multi-line logs aren't getting aggregated as you like, you can change the sensitivity of the matching by setting the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter. Add the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter to your configuration file with a value lower (to increase matches) or higher (to decrease matches) than the current threshold value. To find the current threshold value, run the [Agent `status` command][1].
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  auto_multi_line_detection: true
  auto_multi_line_extra_patterns:
   - \d{4}\-(0?[1-9]|1[012])\-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01])
   - '[A-Za-z_]+ \d+, \d+ \d+:\d+:\d+ (AM|PM)'
  auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold: 0.1
```

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/agent-commands/#agent-information
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

> In a containerized Agent, add the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a containerized Agent, add the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS`:
```

```yaml
    environment:
      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION=true
      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS=\d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
```

> If no pattern meets the line match threshold, add the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD` environment variable with a lower value. This configures a threshold value that determines how frequently logs have to match in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work. To find the current threshold value run the [agent `status` command][1].

Reviewer 2: Let's replace this instance with my wording from above.
```suggestion
The `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter determines how closely logs have to match the patterns in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work.
	
If your multi-line logs aren't getting aggregated as you like, you can change the sensitivity of the matching by setting the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter. Add the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter to your configuration file with a value lower (to increase matches) or higher (to decrease matches) than the current threshold value. To find the current threshold value, run the [Agent `status` command][1].
```

> ```yaml
>     environment:
>       - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION=true
>       - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS=\d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
>       - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD=0.1
> ```
> 
> **Note**: The Datadog Agent interpret spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. You can see the two regex patterns are divided by a space and `\s` is used in the second regex pattern to match for spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent interprets spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. In the following example, the two regex patterns are divided by a space, and `\s` in the second regex pattern matches spaces.
```yaml
    environment:
      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DETECTION=true
      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS=\d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
      - DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD=0.1
```
```

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/agent-commands/#agent-information

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

> In Kubernetes, add the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes, add the environment variable `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS`:
```

#### Operator

```yaml
spec:
  override:
    nodeAgent:
      env:
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
          value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
```

#### Helm

> ```yaml
> datadog:
>   env: 
>     - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
>       value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
> ```
> **Note**: The Datadog Agent interpret spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. You can see the two regex patterns are divided by a space and `\s` is used in the second regex pattern to match for spaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent interprets spaces in the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS` environment variable as separators between multiple patterns. In the following example, the two regex patterns are divided by a space, and `\s` in the second regex pattern matches spaces.
```yaml
datadog:
  env: 
    - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
      value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
```
```

> If no pattern meets the line match threshold, add the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD` environment variable with a lower value. This configures a threshold value that determines how frequently logs have to match in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work. To find the current threshold value run the [agent `status` command][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter determines how closely logs have to match the patterns in order for the auto multi-line aggregation to work.
	
If your multi-line logs aren't getting aggregated as you like, you can change the sensitivity of the matching by setting the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter. Add the `auto_multi_line_default_match_threshold` parameter to your configuration file with a value lower (to increase matches) or higher (to decrease matches) than the current threshold value. To find the current threshold value, run the [Agent `status` command][1].
```

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/configuration/agent-commands/#agent-information

#### Operator

```yaml
spec:
  override:
    nodeAgent:
      env:
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
          value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
        - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD
          value: "0.1"
```

#### Helm

```yaml
datadog:
  env: 
    - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_EXTRA_PATTERNS
      value: \d{4}-(0?[1-9]|1[012])-(0?[1-9]|[12][0-9]|3[01]) [A-Za-z_]+\s\d+,\s\d+\s\d+:\d+:\d+\s(AM|PM)
    - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_AUTO_MULTI_LINE_DEFAULT_MATCH_THRESHOLD
      value: "0.1"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> With this feature enabled, when a new log file is opened the Agent first tries to detect a pattern. This detection process takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs (whichever comes first). During this process the logs are sent as single lines. After the detection threshold is met all future logs for that source are aggregated with the best matching pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With multi-line aggregation enabled, the Agent first tries to detect a pattern in each new log file. This detection process takes at most 30 seconds or the first 500 logs, whichever comes first. During the initial detection process, the logs are sent as single lines.

After the detection threshold is met, all future logs for that source are aggregated with the best matching pattern, or as single lines if no pattern is found.
```
